Document Ether.js for asset hub smart contracts (#295)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/toolkit/api-libraries/smart-contracts/ether-js.md

---

> title: Ethers.Js

Reviewer: NIT:
```diff
- title: Ethers.Js
+ title: Ethers.js
```

description: Learn how to interact with the Asset Hub chain using Ethers.js, compiling and deploying Solidity contracts, and interacting with deployed smart contracts.
---

# Ethers.Js

## Introduction

> Ethers.js is a lightweight library that enables interaction with Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM)-compatible blockchains through JavaScript. This article demonstrates how to use Ethers.js to interact and deploy smart contracts to the Asset Hub.

Reviewer 2: Maybe a word about how it works would be good, i.e., something like: 

"The `revive` compiler is used to compile Solidity smart contracts to PolkaVM bytecode, which allows it to be uploaded to Asset Hub. An Ethereum RPC faciliates interaction with existing Ethereum tools, such as Ethers.js or Metamask"

If this doesn't fit, feel free to ignore.

Author: that's perfect! will added, thanks!

## Set Up the Project

To start working with Ethers.js, begin by initializing your project:

```bash
npm init -y
```

## Install Dependencies

Next, install the Ethers.js library:

```bash
npm install ethers
```

## Set Up the Ethers.js Provider

To interact with the Asset Hub, you'll need to set up an Ethers.js provider. This provider connects to a blockchain node, allowing you to query blockchain data and interact with smart contracts. Here's how to configure it:

```js
--8<-- 'code/develop/toolkit/api-libraries/smart-contracts/ether-js/connectToProvider.js'
```

!!! note

>     Replace `INSERT_RPC_URL`, `INSERT_CHAIN_ID`, and `INSERT_CHAIN_NAME` with the appropriate values. For example, to connect to Westend Asset Hub, you can use the following parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Replace `INSERT_RPC_URL`, `INSERT_CHAIN_ID`, and `INSERT_CHAIN_NAME` with the appropriate values. For example, to connect to Westend Asset Hub's Ethereum RPC instance, you can use the following parameters:
```

    ```js
    const PROVIDER_RPC = {
        rpc: 'https://westend-asset-hub-eth-rpc.polkadot.io',
        chainId: 420420421,
        name: 'westend-asset-hub'
    };
    ```

With the [`Provider`](https://docs.ethers.org/v6/api/providers/#Provider){target=\_blank} set up, you can start querying the blockchain. For instance, to fetch the latest block number:

??? code "Fetch Last Block code"

    ```js
    --8<-- 'code/develop/toolkit/api-libraries/smart-contracts/ether-js/fetchLastBlock.js'
    ```

## Compile Contracts

> To deploy smart contracts to Asset Hub, you need to compile them into `polkavm` bytecode. Use the [`@parity/revive`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@parity/revive){target=\_blank} library, which compiles Solidity code for use on Substrate-based chains.

Reviewer 2: Might be worth linking something about what PolkaVM is eventually, not sure if we have a good page here, if not we can make a follow up issue as I don't think it should block this PR.

Install the `@parity/revive` library:

```bash
npm install --save-dev @parity/revive 
```
### Example: Storage.sol

> Here's a sample Solidity contract (`Storage.sol`) to be compiled and deployed to Asset Hub. This contract's functionality stores a number and permits users to update it with a new value.

Reviewer 2: tiny nit: not sure if we are saying "the Asset Hub" or just "Asset Hub" consistently.

```suggestion
Here's a sample Solidity contract (`Storage.sol`) to be compiled and deployed to the Asset Hub. This contract's functionality stores a number and permits users to update it with a new value.
```

??? code "Storage.sol"

    ```solidity
    --8<-- 'code/develop/toolkit/api-libraries/smart-contracts/ether-js/Storage.sol'
    ```

To compile this contract, use the following script:

```js
--8<-- 'code/develop/toolkit/api-libraries/smart-contracts/ether-js/compile.js'
```

Note that the script above is tailored to the `Storage.sol` contract. It can be adjusted for other contracts by changing the file name or modifying the ABI and bytecode paths accordingly.

After executing the script, the Solidity contract will be compiled into the required `polkavm` bytecode format. The ABI and bytecode will be saved into files with `.json` and `.polkavm` extensions, respectively. You can now proceed with deploying the contract to the Asset Hub network, as outlined in the next section.

## Contracts Deployment

To deploy the compiled contract to the Asset Hub, you will need a wallet with a private key to sign the deployment transaction. You can use [subkey](/polkadot-protocol/basics/accounts/#using-subkey){target=\_blank} to manage your wallet.

> Here's the script to deploy the contract:

Reviewer 3: This is a fairly long script all in one go, can it be broken down into chunks?

```js
--8<-- 'code/develop/toolkit/api-libraries/smart-contracts/ether-js/deploy.js'
```

!!! note
    Ensure to replace the `INSERT_MNEMONIC` placeholder with the proper value of your mnemonic.

After running the script above, the contract will be deployed to the Asset Hub network, and the contract address will be saved in a contract-address.json file within your project directory. This address can be used for further interactions with the contract, such as calling its methods or checking balances.

## Interact with the Contract

Once the contract is deployed, you can interact with it by calling its functions. For example, to set a number, read it and then modify that number by its double, you can use the following script:

```js
--8<-- 'code/develop/toolkit/api-libraries/smart-contracts/ether-js/checkStorage.js'
```

Ensure you replace the `INSERT_MNEMONIC`, `INSERT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS` and `INSERT_ADDRESS_TO_CHECK` placeholders with actual values. Also, the contract ABI file (`Storage.json`) should be correctly referenced.

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can add a follow up to the REMIX IDE as well?

Author: Sure, we can add REMIX IDE as a follow-up, but I see Remix more as a development environment. Ideally, we should link to some ethers.js tutorial that demonstrates how to implement a project using ethers.js. What do you think @CrackTheCode016 ?

In any case, those two options would be tasks to add later on.
